Hey, everyone.
What's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
Today I'm going to be taking
you one step closer to building
your own single page
application by showing you
how to handle URL changes
with a client-side router.
So let's dive in.
So if you've never
heard of it before,
routing is the process of
determining what code to run
when a URL is requested.
In the world of routing, there's
basically two approaches.
You can do all your
routing in JavaScript,
and that's what
I'll cover today.
This is called
imperative routing.
Basically, you listen
for a route change.
When you hear it, you
run a callback function.
And inside that callback you
can do all sorts of things.
You could tell core pages to
change which item is currently
selected or you could set
a bunch of scope variables
and update your bindings.
And there's also
declarative routing,
which I'll cover in
the next episode.
Basically this is
doing the same thing,
but using markup
instead of JavaScript.
Now the difference between
imperative and declarative
routing really comes down
to style and personal taste.
Polymer doesn't have
an opinion here,
so I'm going to start by showing
you how to do it imperatively,
next episode we'll
do it declaratively,
and then you can decide
which you prefer.
And the first thing I'm going
to do is hop into my terminal
and install a router
called page js using Bower.
Then in my index, I'll load
page js with a script tag.
And scrolling up
a bit, you'll see
that I've got a similar
code from my last video.
I've got a core pages element
inside an autobinding template.
I've dropped links in the show
notes to that previous episode
so you can review
it if you need to.
In my core pages here,
I've got a value attribute
set to data route.
And I also got a selected value
set to a scope variable called
route.
And what this is
going to do is it's
going to look to see if
any of these children
match the current route.
So if the route was
set to portfolio,
it would see which child has a
matching data route attribute,
go down, and display
this one right here.
Now hopping into
my app js file, I'm
going to grab a reference
to the autobinding template
and distort in a
variable called app.
Then I'll call the page js
function to define some routes.
And lastly I'll
configure the router
to use hashbang URLs
instead of the history API.
And what this means
is that my routes
are going to have a little
pound symbol and an exclamation
point on the end of them versus
just using pretty URLs which
might just have a slash and then
the actual name of the route.
And the reason I'm
going this route
is because it doesn't require
us to set up a server.
Pretty URLs will.
So hashbangs can be a little
bit easier to work with.
But I encourage you to try
both out in your application.
And the last thing I
have to do is write out
the functions that'll run
when these routes match.
So I'll create functions for
home, portfolio, and contact.
And you can see that these
functions match the routes
up here.
Inside of these handlers, you
could run all sorts of code.
You could fetch data or you
could redirect to other routes
even.
But to keep it
really simple, I'm
just going to tell my
template to set its route
property to a matching string.
Now hopping in my
browser, you can
see that as I update the
URL here in the address bar,
the content on the page
changes to reflect it.
Pretty simple, right?
All right.
The last thing I want
to do is toss in a menu
so the user can actually swap
between the different sections.
Let's check it out.
Now I've gone ahead and
dropped in a core menu
and bound it to that
same route scope
variable as my core pages.
I've also included anchor
tags in my menu items
so when a user
clicks on one, it's
actually going to
trigger the router
to update the URL, which will
then set the route variable.
Now because the core
menu and core pages
are both using that
same route variable,
effectively the two are linked
and they should update in sync.
Back in my browser,
you'll see that as I'm
clicking on these
different menu items,
the URL is changing up
here in the address bar
and the content stays in sync
with the rest of the page.
I can even grab the URL
and drop it into a new tab.
And once that boots
up, you'll see
that the content is
showing the right page
and the right item is
highlighted over in our menu.
OK, so you've seen the
first bit of routing
that's possible in
a Polymer project.
And at this point,
you're probably
ready to just like run off and
go build your own application.
But don't run away just yet.
In the next episode,
I want to show you
how to all of these exact same
tricks using nothing but HTML.
So definitely stick
around for that
and be sure to click
the Subscribe button.
It is how I justify
my employment here.
As always, thank you
so much for watching
and I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]